Lint images (#9736)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/platform/studio-ide/lint-format.md

- Displays a **Code quality** tab to view lint and format results. Some editor diagnostics also appear in the **Problems** tab.

:::info Linting considerations
- The <Constant name="studio_ide" /> runs linting using the <Constant name="core" /> engine, even when your development environment uses the **<Constant name="fusion" /> Stable** release track. For more information, refer to [<Constant name="fusion" /> limitations](/docs/fusion/supported-features#limitations).
- Linting doesn't support ephemeral models in dbt v1.5 and lower. Refer to the [FAQs](#faqs) for more info.
:::

### Enable linting

Linting is available on all branches, including your protected primary git branch. Since the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> prevents commits to the protected branch, it prompts you to commit those changes to a new branch.

1. To enable linting, open a `.sql` file and click the **Code quality** tab.
2. Click the **`</> Config`** button on the right side of the [console section](/docs/platform/studio-ide/ide-user-interface#console-section), below the **File editor**. 

> 3. In the **Code quality tool configuration** dialog, select **SQLFluff (linting & formatting)** or **sqlfmt (formatting only)**. 

Reviewer: Since this section is for linting only, I think we should limit the step to just selecting SQLFluff (and do the same for the Format section):
```suggestion
3. In the **Code quality tool configuration** dialog, select **SQLFluff (linting & formatting)**.
```

> 4. To lint your code, select **SQLFluff (linting & formatting)**. (Use sqlfmt to [format](#format) your code.)

Reviewer: This sounds like a repetition of the step above -- I think we can add the Save action here.
```suggestion
4. Click **Save**.
```

> 5. After you save your selection, use the toolbar above the console (below the **File editor**) to select **Lint** or **Fix**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After saving, use the toolbar above the console (below the **File editor**) to select **Lint file** or **Lint and Fix file**:
```

## Format

In the <Constant name="studio_ide" />, you can format your code to match style guides with a click of a button. The <Constant name="studio_ide" /> integrates with formatters like sqlfmt, Prettier, and Black to automatically format code on five different file types: SQL, YAML, Markdown, Python, and JSON.

- SQL: Format with [sqlfmt](http://sqlfmt.com/), which provides one way to format your dbt SQL and Jinja.
    - **Note**: Custom sqlfmt configuration in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> is not supported.
- YAML, Markdown, and JSON: Format with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/). 
- Python: Format with [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

The <Constant name="studio_ide" /> formatting integrations take care of manual tasks like code formatting, enabling you to focus on creating quality data models, collaborating, and driving impactful results.

### Format SQL

To format your SQL code, <Constant name="dbt" /> integrates with [sqlfmt](http://sqlfmt.com/), which is an uncompromising SQL query formatter that provides one way to format the SQL query and Jinja.

> By default, the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> uses sqlfmt rules to format your code, making the **Format** button available and convenient to use immediately. However, if you have a file named `.sqlfluff` in the root directory of your dbt project, the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> will default to SQLFluff rules instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> uses sqlfmt rules to format your code, making the **Format** button available and convenient to use immediately. However, if you have a file named `.sqlfluff` in the root directory of your dbt project, the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> defaults to SQLFluff rules instead.
```

Formatting is available on all branches, including your protected primary git branch. Since the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> prevents commits to the protected branch, it prompts you to commit those changes to a new branch.

1. Open a `.sql` file and click the **Code quality** tab.
2. Click the **`</> Config`** button on the right side of the console.

> 3. In the **Code quality tool configuration** dialog, select **SQLFluff (linting & formatting)** or **sqlfmt (formatting only)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Code quality tool configuration** dialog, select **sqlfmt (formatting only)**.
```

> 4. To format your code, select **sqlfmt (formatting only)**. (Use SQLFluff to [lint](#lint) your code.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save**.
```

> 5. After you save your selection, use the toolbar above the console (below the **File editor**) to select the **Format** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After saving, use the toolbar above the console (below the **File editor**) to select the **Format** button.
```
